Now let's discuss CloudWatch Alarms.
So alarms, as we know, they're used
to trigger notifications from any metric.
And you can define complex alarms
and on various options such as sampling or doing percentage
or maximum, and so on.
Alarm has three states,
OK, it means that it's not triggered,
INSUFFICIENT_DATA means that there's not enough data
for the alarm to determine a state
and ALARM, which is that your threshold has been breached
and therefore a notification will be sent.
The period is how long you want the alarm
to evaluate for on the metric.
And so it could be very, very short, very, very long.
And it can apply also to high resolution customer metrics.
For example, 10 seconds, 30 seconds,
or multiple of 60 seconds.
Now, alarms have three main targets.
The first one is actions on EC2 instances
such as stopping it, terminating it, rebooting it,
or recovering any instance.
The second one is to trigger an auto-scaling action.
For example, a scale out or a scale in.
And the last one is to send a notification
to the SNS service, for example,
and from the SNS service, we can hook it
to a Lambda function
and have the Lambda function do pretty much anything we want
based on an alarm being breached.
So now let's talk about Composite Alarms,
because we know that CloudWatch Alarms
are on a single metric,
but then if you wanted to have multiple metrics,
you would need to use Composite Alarms.
So because composite alarms are actually monitoring
the states of multiple other alarms,
and these alarms can be each relying
on one different metric.
So the Composite Alarm is the action
of combining all these other alarms together,
and you can use AND or OR conditions
to be able to be very flexible in terms
of the condition you're checking for.
So it's very helpful to reduce alarm noise
because you can create complex Composite Alarms
and saying, for example, if the CPU is high
and the network is high, then don't alert me
because I only wanna know when the CPU is high
and the network is a low, these kind of things.
So let's take an example, we have an EC2 instance,
and we're going to create a composite alarm on top of it.
So therefore we create a first
underlying alarm called the Alarm A,
which is going to monitor the CPU of the EC2 instance.
Then you create Alarm B, which is going to monitor the IOPS
of the EC2 instance,
and then the composite alarm is defined as the junction
of Alarm A and Alarm B.
And therefore, if Alarm A is in alarm
and Alarm B is in alarm,
and this is something we have to define ourselves,
then the Composite Alarm itself will be an alarm
and can trigger, for example, an SNS notification.
So as you can see, you can get quite creative
with the Composite Alarms.
So let's talk about EC2 instance recovery.
So we have the status checks
and we have the instance status check,
which is going to check the EC2 virtual machine.
And we have the system status check,
which is going to check the underlying layer hardware
of our EC2 instance.
And finally, the attached EBS status check,
which is going to check any attached EBS volumes health.
And you can define a CloudWatch Alarm on these checks, okay?
So you'll monitor a specific EC2 instance,
and in case the alarm is being breach,
then you can start an EC2 instance recovery
to make sure, for example, that you move
your EC2 instance from one host to another.
When you do a recovery, you get the same private,
public, and elastic IP, the same metadata
and the same placement group for your instance.
And you can also send an alert to your SNS topic
to get alerted that the EC2 instance was being recovered.
Now, the cloud alarm has some good stuff.
To know that, first of all is that as we've seen,
we can create an alarm on top
of a CloudWatch logs metric filter.
So remember, the CloudWatch logs are having a metric filter,
which is hooked to CloudWatch Alarm.
And then when we receive too many instances
of a specific word, for example, the word error,
then do an alert and send a message into Amazon SNS.
And so if you wanted to test alarm
and notifications, you can use a CLI call
called set alarm states.
And this is helpful when you want to trigger an alarm,
even though it didn't reach a specific threshold
because you wanted to see whether
or not the alarm being triggered results in the correct
action for your infrastructure.
So that's it for alarms, I hope you liked it,
and I will see you in the next lecture for some practice.